Source: https://www.medicalstudentrotation.com/internal-medicine-rotation-munster-indiana/

INTERNAL MEDICINE (IM 10) – COMMUNITY MUNSTER HOSPITAL, INDIANA
APPLY NOW
HOSPITAL BASED ROTATION – HANDS ON
HOSPITAL-BASED; INPATIENT AT THE ABOVE HOSPITAL. (The hospital has applied for a Residency Program and is likely to get it soon).
City

Munster

State

Indiana

Duration

4 weeks

LOR Type

Hospital letterhead
LOR will be based on performance/sincerity and attendance.

MAX

3-4 STUDENTS PER MONTH.

Rotation Type

In-patient; Hospital-based; Hospital + Clinic every day 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Specialty

PROFESSOR, INTERNAL MEDICINE TEACHING ATTENDING and FACULTY AT THE HOSPITAL.

Physician Affiliations

Professor of Medicine & Faculty @ Community Munster Hospital Medical Centre.

Rotation Fee

$1650

Application Fee

Included in above.

Malpractice Fees

Included in above.

HIPAA/Credentialing Fees

Included in above.

Does the Hospital have a Residency

Yes at the Hospital.

Is the Hospital FMG-friendly

Yes, there are residents and Fellows.

Accommodation

Close by or you can Airbnb.

Description of the Rotation
MONDAY Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
TUESDAY Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
WEDNESDAY Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
THURSDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
FRIDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
SATURDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.)
You will also be taught about the practical aspects of practicing medicine in the USA, the Insurance systems, and the Prospects of different branches and sub-specialties of Medicine for future growth during and after residency.
Clinical experience as well as teaching &amp; training of EMR systems in the hospital setting.

Times are subject to change per the attending; however, the attending physician is good at communicating the schedule, times, and expectations at the beginning of the rotations.

Students may also be required to attend didactics, lectures, and grand rounds. While participating as a member of the team, you will learn to
interact with diverse patients and perform detailed history taking and physical examination, check labs and notes on the patient. Formulate a differential diagnosis and an assessment and treatment plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance. The students will follow up on all patients under their care every day. They will also participate in discharge planning and execution.

This is a unique learning experience for medical graduates who are committed to becoming effective, successful residents. This clinical initiative is designed to prepare foreign medical graduates (IMGs) for the US clinical environment by providing them with hands-on clinical experience. You will have the experience as a clinical learner under the supervision of a teaching attending physician. At the end of your rotation, you may request a performance-based letter of recommendation on Hospital letterhead.

Document Needed

• MMR • PPD (within 6 months) • Proof of Covid vaccine • Immunization records • Resume • Casual business attire or scrubs/Lab coat in hospital and clinics.

Payment Policy

Full payment is due 6 weeks before the rotation start date. You can also pay the entire rotation fee at the start without putting a deposit down. 50% of the amount will be refunded if rotation is canceled before 6 weeks of the start date. No refunds after that.

APPLY NOW
CHICAGO - NEW YORK - DALLAS - HOUSTON
+1-312-437-7866

Copyright © 2024 Medical Student Rotation. All rights reserved.