Source: https://www.medicalstudentrotation.com/cardiology-rotation-in-chicago-park-hospital/

CARDIOLOGY/ICU/IM (Cardiology): HOSPITAL-BASED; INPATIENT ROSALIND FRANKLIN UNIVERSITY & MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL AFFILIATED - PARK HOSPITAL, CHICAGO
APPLY NOW
HOSPITAL BASED ROTATION – HANDS ON
City

Chicago

State

Illinois

Duration

4 weeks

LOR Type

Hospital letterhead, chairman of Cardiology Department.
INDIVIDUALIZED LOR will be based on performance/sincerity and attendance.

Rotation Type

Daily Hospital In-Patient and Hands-on

Rotation Setting

Inpatient 90% + Outpatient 10%

Specialty

CARDIOLOGY/ ICU (AFFILIATED WITH ROSALIND FRANKLIN UNIVERSITY & CHICAGO MEDICAL SCHOOL)

Physician Affiliations

Head of Cardiology Department & Teaching Faculty at JPH Hospital Medical Centre & St. Bernard Hospital and Medical Centre.

Rotation Fee

$1700

Application Fee

Included in above.

Malpractice Fees

Included in above.

HIPAA/Credentialing Fees

Included in above.

Does the Hospital have a Residency

Yes at the Hospital.

Is the Hospital FMG-friendly

Yes, there are residents and Fellows.

Accommodation

Accommodation options are available both on double occupancy and single occupancy within 3 to 5 minute walking distance from the hospital. Single occupancy rate is $1250 and double occupancy at $850. Once you have paid the Rotation fee, and the accommodation fees we will connect you to the landlord.​

Description of the Rotation

Jackson Park Hospital caters to a diverse population of America including Caucasians, Blacks, Hispanics, Asians, indigenous, and inner-city populations. The experience is phenomenal. The pathology seen is diverse and workup and diagnostics/Rx the state of the art.

Daily Schedule

Hospital rounds daily in the morning PRE OPERATIVE ROUNDS ON THE FLOOR.

Timings

Monday – Friday: FOR THE OR - 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Saturday: If students are interested, they can do Saturday hours as well.
On-Call: Once a week they have a choice to remain on call as well with the team on the floor. Times are subject to change as per the attending’s schedule.

Outpatient Clinics

Outpatient clinics 1-2 times a week for roughly 4 hours.

Responsibilities of Rotating Medical Students

Rotating Medical Students at JPH will work closely with the Residents, Fellows, and the attending team in close coordination with each other. Students may also be required to attend didactics, lectures, and grand rounds at the JPH. While participating as a member of the team, you will:
• Learn to interact with diverse patients and perform detailed history taking and physical examination.
• Check labs and notes on the patient.
• Formulate a differential diagnosis and an assessment and treatment plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance.
• Follow up on all patients under their care every day.
• Participate in discharge planning and execution.

Learning Experience

This is a unique learning experience for medical graduates who are committed to becoming effective, successful residents. You will see an array of patients with various disorders and learn their Rx and Mx. The hospital and clinic initiatives are designed to prepare foreign medical graduates (IMGs) for the USCSE by providing them with hands-on clinical experience. You will learn the United States Health Care system under the supervision of a teaching attending physician.

At the end of your 4-week rotation, the rotating student may request a performance-based letter of recommendation on Hospital letterhead. While participating as a member of the team, you will learn to interact with diverse patients and perform detailed history taking and physical examination, check labs and notes on the patient. Formulate a differential diagnosis and execute an Rx plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance. Students will also participate in discharge planning and execution.

Document Needed

• MMR • PPD (within 6 months) • Proof of Covid vaccine • Immunization records • Resume • Casual business attire or scrubs/Lab coat in hospital and clinics.

Refund Policy

Full payment is due 6 weeks before the rotation start date. You can also pay the entire rotation fee at the start without putting a deposit down. 50% of the amount will be refunded if rotation is canceled before 4 weeks of the start date. No refunds after that.

APPLY NOW
CHICAGO - NEW YORK - DALLAS - HOUSTON
+1-312-437-7866

Copyright © 2024 Medical Student Rotation. All rights reserved.