Source: https://www.medicalstudentrotation.com/surgery-rotation-chicago/

GENERAL SURGERY (1) INPATIENT HANDS-ON, ROSALIND FRANKLIN UNIVERSITY AND CHICAGO MEDICAL SCHOOL AFFILIATED PARK HOSPITAL, (JPH) CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
APPLY NOW
HOSPITAL BASED ROTATION – HANDS ON
City

Chicago

State

Illinois

Duration

4 weeks

LOR Type

Hospital letterhead, Chairman of the Surgery Department.
LOR will be based on performance/sincerity and attendance.

Rotation Type

In-Patient and Hands-on

Rotation Setting

Inpatient 90% + Outpatient 10%

Specialty

GEN. SURGERY (AFFILIATED WITH ROSALIND FRANKLIN UNIVERSITY & MOUNT SINAI HOSPITAL)

Physician Affiliations

CHIEF of SURGERY and CHAIRMAN Surgical Services & Faculty at JPH Hospital Medical Centre and Hospital.

Rotation Fee

$2000

Application Fee

Included in above.

Malpractice Fees

Included in above.

HIPAA/Credentialing Fees

Included in above.

Does the Hospital have a Residency

Yes at the Hospital.

Is the Hospital FMG-friendly

Yes, there are residents and Fellows.

Refund Policy

Full payment is due 6 weeks before the rotation start date. You can also pay the entire rotation fee at the start without putting a deposit down. 50% of the amount will be refunded if rotation is canceled before 4 weeks of the start date. No refunds after that.

Accommodation

Accommodation options are available both on double occupancy and single occupancy within 3 to 5 minute walking distance from the hospital. Single occupancy rate is $1250 and double occupancy at $850. Once you have paid the Rotation fee, and the accommodation fees we will connect you to the landlord.

Description of the Rotation

The students will attend whatever surgeries are daily scheduled in the OR at the hospital.
They will closely work with the Chief of Surgery every day.
They will do the pre-op preparation and evaluation of patients on the floor daily.
They will observe any bedside procedures, such as central line insertion.
Outpatient clinics 1-2 times a week for roughly 4 hours.
Will participate in Surgery seminars, Morbidity and Mortality conferences.
Student Responsibilities

Students may also be required to attend didactics, lectures, and grand rounds. While participating as a member of the team, you will learn to interact with diverse patients and perform detailed history taking and physical examination, check labs and notes on the patient. Formulate a differential diagnosis and an assessment and treatment plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance. The students will follow up on all patients under their care every day. They will also participate in discharge planning and execution.

Learning Experience

This is a unique learning experience for medical graduates who are committed to becoming effective, successful residents. This clinical initiative is designed to prepare foreign medical graduates (IMGs) for the US clinical environment by providing them with hands-on clinical experience. You will have the experience as a clinical learner under the supervision of a teaching attending physician. At the end of your rotation, you may request a performance-based letter of recommendation on Hospital letterhead.

Document Needed

• MMR • PPD (within 6 months) • Proof of Covid vaccine • Immunization records • Resume • Casual business attire or scrubs/Lab coat in hospital and clinics.

Refund Policy

Full payment is due 6 weeks before the rotation start date. You can also pay the entire rotation fee at the start without putting a deposit down. 50% of the amount will be refunded if rotation is canceled before 6 weeks of the start date. No refunds after that.

APPLY NOW
CHICAGO - NEW YORK - DALLAS - HOUSTON
+1-312-437-7866

Copyright © 2024 Medical Student Rotation. All rights reserved.