Source: https://www.medicalstudentrotation.com/hands-on-rotation-glen-oaks-glendale-heights/

INTERNAL MEDICINE (IM 5) THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO ADVENTIST GLEN OAKS HOSPITAL,GLENDALE HEIGHTS, ILLINOIS.
APPLY NOW
HOSPITAL BASED ROTATION – HANDS ON
HOSPITAL-BASED; INPATIENT AT HOSPITAL WITH RESIDENCY PROGRAM.
City

Glendale Heights

State

Illinois

Duration

4 weeks

LOR Type

Hospital letterhead, Chairman Internal Medicine Department.
INDIVIDUALIZED LOR will be given based on performance/sincerity and attendance.

Rotation Type

In-patient, Hands-on.

Rotation Setting

Inpatient 50% + Outpatient Clinics & Nursing Homes visits 50%

Specialty

INTERNAL MEDICINE (AFFILIATED WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO)

Physician Affiliations

SECRETARY & CHAIRMAN, FACULTY of Medicine @ the University of Chicago Adventist Glen Oaks Hospital.

Rotation Fee

$1650

Application Fee

Included in above.

Malpractice Fees

Included in above.

HIPAA/Credentialing Fees

Included in above.

Accommodation

Available around the hospital. Commute by Uber or Bus. Fair price. $750 for Double occupancy OR $1250 for Single occupancy.

Does the Hospital have a Residency

Yes at the affiliated University.

Is the Hospital FMG-friendly

Yes, there are residents and Fellows.

Description of the Rotation

Hospital rounds in the morning. Timings roughly Monday to Friday 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Hospital Rounds twice a week, Clinics twice a week, and Nursing Home rounds once a week. If students are interested, they can do Saturday hospital rounds as well. Times are subject to change as per the attending’s schedule. Outpatient clinics 1-2 times a week for roughly 4 hours either at the hospital or in the community nearby. You may also visit a Nursing home to see medical patients. Rotating Students will interact with the residents from the residency program in managing the patients, interact with the nurses to facilitate the care of the patient, and interact with other faculties and subspecialties in the overall care of the patient.

Students may also be required to attend didactics, lectures, and grand rounds. While participating as a member of the team, you will learn to interact with diverse patients and perform detailed history taking and physical examination, check labs and notes on the patient. Formulate a differential diagnosis and an assessment and treatment plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance. The students will follow up on all patients under their care every day. They will also participate in discharge planning and execution.

This is a unique learning experience for medical graduates who are committed to becoming effective, successful residents. This clinical initiative is designed to prepare foreign medical graduates (IMGs) for the US clinical environment by providing them with hands-on clinical experience. You will have the experience as a clinical learner under the supervision of a teaching attending physician. At the end of your rotation, you may request a performance-based letter of recommendation on Hospital letterhead.

Document Needed

• MMR • PPD (within 6 months) • Proof of Covid vaccine • Immunization records • Resume • Casual business attire or scrubs/Lab coat in hospital and clinics.

Payment Policy

Full payment is due 6 weeks before the rotation start date. You can also pay the entire rotation fee at the start without putting a deposit down. 50% of the amount will be refunded if rotation is canceled before 6 weeks of the start date. No refunds after that.

APPLY NOW
CHICAGO - NEW YORK - DALLAS - HOUSTON
+1-312-437-7866

Copyright © 2024 Medical Student Rotation. All rights reserved.