Source: https://www.medicalstudentrotation.com/internal-medicine-rotation-chicago-hospitals/

INTERNAL MEDICINE (IM 10) – INSIGHT HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTRE & ST. BERNARD HOSPITAL, CHICAGO.
APPLY NOW
HOSPITAL-BASED; INPATIENT AT THE ABOVE HOSPITALS + CLINIC. (The hospital has applied for a Residency Program and is likely to get it soon).
City

Chicago

State

Illinois

Duration

4 weeks

LOR Type

Hospital letterhead
LOR will be based on performance/sincerity and attendance.
MAX: 4-5 students per month.

Rotation Type

In-patient; Hospital-based; Hospital + Clinic every day 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Specialty

Family Practice/ Family Medicine

Physician Affiliations

CHAIRMAN, Department of Family Medicine at Insight Hospital Medical Centre & VICE-CHAIR Department of Family Medicine at St. Bernard Hospital Medical Centre

Rotation Fee

$1650

Accommodation

Close by (we can suggest) or you can Airbnb.

Description of the Rotation
MONDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
TUESDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
WEDNESDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
THURSDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
FRIDAY – Hospital Rounds + Clinic (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
SATURDAY (1 st and 3 rd Saturdays of the month)– Hospital Rounds +
Clinic (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.)
You will also be taught about the practical aspects of practicing medicine in the USA, the Insurance systems, and the Prospects of different branches and sub-specialties of Medicine for future growth
during and after residency.
Clinical experience as well as teaching of EMR systems in the hospital setting and the Clinic.

 

Times are subject to change as per the attending’s schedule.

Students may also be required to attend didactics, lectures, and grand rounds. While participating as a member of the team, you will learn to interact with diverse patient populations and perform detailed history taking and physical examination, check labs and notes on the patient. Formulate a differential diagnosis and an assessment and treatment plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance. The students will follow up on all patients under their care every day. The students will also participate in multidisciplinary patient care/meetings and discharge planning.

This is a unique learning experience for medical graduates who are committed to becoming effective, successful residents. This clinical initiative is designed to prepare foreign medical graduates (IMGs) for the US clinical environment by providing them with hands-on clinical experience. You will have the experience as a clinical learner under the supervision of a teaching attending physician. At the end of your rotation, you may request a performance-based letter of recommendation on Hospital letterhead.

Requirements & Documents

MMR • PPD (within 12 months) • Proof of Covid vaccine • Malpractice insurance included • Immunization records. Resume • Casual business attire or scrubs/Lab coat in hospitals and clinics.

APPLY NOW
CHICAGO - NEW YORK - DALLAS - HOUSTON
+1-312-437-7866

Copyright © 2024 Medical Student Rotation. All rights reserved.