Source: https://www.medicalstudentrotation.com/psych-inpatient-rotation-weiss-chicago/

PSYCHIATRY (PSY-2) INPATIENT HANDS-ON, WEISS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, CHICAGO
APPLY NOW
CLINIC BASED ROTATION, BUT FULLY HANDS-ON
City

Chicago

State

Illinois

Duration

4 weeks

LOR Type

Institution/Clinic letterhead
LOR will be based on performance/sincerity and attendance.

Rotation Type

In-Patient and Hands-on

Rotation Setting

Inpatient 35% + Outpatient 65%

Specialty

PSYCHIATRY

Physician Affiliations

–PSYCHIATRY ATTENDING, PSYCHIATRY DIVISION WEISS MEMORIAL HOSPITAL (A TEACHING HOSPITAL WITH RESIDENCY PROGRAMS academically affiliated with the University of Illinois and all residency programs at Weiss are accredited by the ACGME)

Rotation Fee

$1800

Application Fee

Included in above.

Malpractice Fees

Included in above.

HIPAA/Credentialing Fees

Included in above.

Max

3-4 students per rotation.

Does the Hospital have a Residency

Yes at the affiliated Hospital.

Is the Hospital FMG-friendly

Yes, there are residents and Fellows.

Description of the Rotation

Psychiatry clinical work involves seeing patients at Weiss Memorial Hospital with the Psychiatry Attending Physician facilitating Rx and Mx of admitted patients and hands-on experience in managing psychiatry patients in the outpatient clinics. The daily schedule will be roughly 8.30 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. Students may also be required to attend didactics, lectures, and grand rounds. The attending physicians will inform the students of the schedule at the beginning of the rotation. Rotating Students will interact with the residents from the residency program in managing the patients, interact with the nurses to facilitate the care of the patient, and interact with other faculties and subspecialties in the overall care of the patient.

This is a unique learning experience for medical graduates who are committed to becoming effective, successful residents. You will see an array of patients with various disorders and learn their Rx and Mx. The hospital and clinic initiatives are designed to prepare foreign medical graduates (IMGs) for the USCSE by providing them with hands-on clinical experience. You will learn the United States Health Care system under the supervision of a teaching attending physician. At the end of your 4-week rotation, the rotating student may request a performance-based letter of recommendation on Hospital letterhead. While participating as a member of the team, you will learn to interact with diverse patients and perform detailed history taking and physical examination, check labs and notes on the patient. Formulate a differential diagnosis and execute an Rx plan for each patient under the attending physician’s supervision and guidance. Students will also participate in discharge planning and execution.

Document Needed

• MMR • PPD (within 6 months) • Proof of Covid vaccine • Immunization records • Resume • Casual business attire or scrubs/Lab coat in hospital and clinics.

Payment Policy

Full payment is due 6 weeks before the rotation start date. You can also pay the entire rotation fee at the start without putting a deposit down. 50% of the amount will be refunded if rotation is canceled before 6 weeks of the start date. No refunds after that.

APPLY NOW
CHICAGO - NEW YORK - DALLAS - HOUSTON
+1-312-437-7866

Copyright © 2024 Medical Student Rotation. All rights reserved.